Job description
Job Title: Advisor, Data Intelligence Engineer

Role Overview:

Adviser, Data Intelligence Engineer at DELL EMC is responsible for providing the required capabilities of turning data into actionable insights. Data Intelligence Engineer Will Design solutions, framework and Data Integration solutions. Design and develop new environments, methodologies, processes, tools, and data governance structures to enable effective analysis and advanced modeling against data sets. They also have responsibility for creating specifications for ETL & Data Integrations based on business need and recommending strategic/tactical plans based on business data and market trends. In addition, analyze complex business problems and issues using data to provide insight to decision makers. This job function may include the following disciplines: Data modeling, data integration, visualization, data architecture and solutions to internal DELL EMC DTS BI Team.

Key Responsibilities:

Understand business requirements to translate business problems into analytics problems and construct analysis road-map based on the business context
Assist in implementation of various models with modelling, research, analytics and software team. Responsibilities include reviewing the theoretical assumptions
Helps to build high-level analytics strategies and Understands data intelligence strategies.
Has knowledge and understanding of BI and Data intelligence practices & processes.
Understand industry standards and tools in data intelligence and analytics.
Strong Experience with Tableau, SAP BOBJ, statistical analysis, database and data mining and blending techniques.
Some experience with data visual design and programming/scripting/SQL, Some UI design and user experience skills.
Monitor industry trends on data intelligence and analytics. Collaborate with other engineers and other engineering and business groups.
In-depth experience in data intelligence & analytics tools, process, methodologies and best practices. Knowledge and wide application of principles, theories, and concepts, and working knowledge of other related fields.
Required Candidate profile

Essential Requirements:

6+ years of experience in developing BI Tools and Technologies like Informatica, Tableau, SAP BOBJ applications.
Strong Expertise in Informatica, Tableau and New analytics tools
Expertise in managing ETL and Analytics, SQL, PL/SQL teams
Experience working with Big data and analytics projects
Desirable Requirements:

Strong communication, interpersonal, planning and problem-solving skills
Flexible with timings and being available for all global regions
Conduct business-based conversations to identify stakeholders, business process, KPI" s and critical success factors around an opportunity
RoleFunctional Outside Consultant
Industry TypeIT-Software / Software Services
Functional AreaIT Software - DBA, Datawarehousing
Employment TypeFull Time, Permanent
Role CategorySystem Design/Implementation/ERP/CRM
Education
UG :Any Graduate in Any Specialization
PG :Any Postgraduate in Any Specialization
Doctorate :Doctorate Not Required
Key Skills
BigDataAnalytics UserExperience DataMining UsernterfaceDesigning Informatica Tableau VisualDesign DataIntegration SAPBOBJapplications DataAnalysis DataModeling DataGovernanceS tatisticalAnalysis